---
layout:     post
title:      The American Garage
date:       2024-09-20 12:00:00
summary:    The hidden key to America's success: the humble garage
categories: anime politics memes twitter cities planning illuminati driving highways bathrooms evangelion
---

Singapore's remarkable success as a nation is often humorously attributed by Lee Kuan Yew to the invention of the air conditioner. While it may start as a joke, there’s truth to it. Singapore has distinguished itself from its Southeast Asian neighbors by presenting itself as a first-world nation, in part thanks to the comfort provided by air conditioning. This ability to offer a conducive work environment attracted investments and opportunities, transforming it from a nation with dirt roads and few resources into a global business powerhouse. Given its limited natural resources, Singapore had to leverage its human capital and strategic location. Without air conditioning, the extreme heat and humidity would have made a productive work environment nearly impossible.

In the United States, we have our own success story: Silicon Valley. This region is often envied worldwide for its innovation and significant contributions to the American economy. Discussions about replicating its ecosystem of innovation frequently mention factors such as deregulation, access to funding, and even the weather. However, one essential element is often overlooked: the garage.

Many of us casually reference the fact that companies like HP, Disney, Microsoft, Apple, and Amazon "started in a garage," but we rarely reflect on what that truly signifies. Would these companies have emerged without garages? I believe not.

Before Silicon Valley became synonymous with software, it was a hub for hardware development, which is reflected in its name. Building hardware requires a dedicated workspace. While one could use a living room or apartment, the nature of hardware development—often messy and requiring specialized equipment—makes a garage a more suitable option. Indoor soldering generates fumes, lab equipment can damage home furnishings, and external weather conditions can be unpredictable. A garage provides a clean, accessible space for experimentation and innovation without the constraints of a rented warehouse, which can be costly.

For many, a garage is an underappreciated asset. It serves as an ideal workspace—a mini-warehouse connected to your home, customizable and equipped for a variety of tasks. It can house power tools, CNC machines, and other equipment, acting simultaneously as a manufacturing center and a shipping hub. The convenience of working with friends or neighbors nearby enhances collaboration, while climate control is as simple as opening the garage doors.

Garages became popular in the 1920s with the rise of automobile ownership and boomed in the post-World War II suburban expansion. The standardization of homes kept prices low, while the growing demand for cars necessitated storage space, leading to the creation of garages. These spaces allowed homeowners to maintain their vehicles and store tools without cluttering their living areas.

In America, garages have naturally fostered innovation. They offer a sheltered environment where individuals can create and experiment freely, equipped with the tools they need. This contrasts sharply with Singapore's emphasis on air conditioning, which arose from its hot, resource-scarce environment. While air conditioning supports a thriving office culture, America benefits from its mild climate and ample land, making garages a practical solution for innovators.

Without garages, our landscape of innovation would look very different. Urban settings often limit opportunities for creation, forcing individuals to work in their living rooms, which can detract from quality of life. This issue is evident in the divide between San Francisco and the broader Bay Area, where tech hubs favor software development over hardware production.

Ultimately, the key to America’s growth lies in its garages. If other countries aspire to emulate our success, they should consider building single-family homes with attached garages as a foundational step.

